Sorbonne Université
Department of Computer Science
Academic Year 2018/19
Module: Algorithms (3I003)

Presentation
============
This repository corresponds to the Algorithms module project. It consists in the theoretical analysis and implementation of three algorithms to solve a particularisation of the [change-making problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change-making_problem "Wikipedia Entry"). In this project, the problem was to find the least number of jars to fully fill given a confiture quantity and a set of jar capacities. The algorithms used were exhaustive search, dynamic programming and greedy algorithm.

Structure
=========
data
----
This directory includes primarily the data files of the algorithms performance for various instances of the confiture problem. These files are prefixed by the initials of the correspondig algorithm.

The last two files contain some performance measuring for the greedy algorithm.

examples
--------
The algorithms entries must be three parameters, but they can be generated by formatted text files. This directory contains two data sets.

img
---
Here is located the university's logo.

report
------
This directory comprises the report---written in french---files. The report consists of the complexity analysis of the aforementioned algorithms, and the feasibility study of the greedy algorithm.

src
---
The algorithms implementation are located here. There are also some useful functions in the *tools.py* file; the performances mesuring in *benchmark.py*; the assessment of the practicality of the greedy policy in the *gp_feasibility.py*; and a script to run the algorithms from data files in *run.py*.
